Documentation for operator privileges (#68964)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/security/operator-privileges/index.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="enterprise"]
[[operator-privileges]]
== Operator Privileges

include::operator-privileges-designed-for-note.asciidoc[]

With a typical {es} deployment, people who administer the cluster also operates the cluster at the infrastructure level.
The RBAC <<authorization>> is effective and reliable for this environment.
However, in more managed environments, such as {ess-trial}[{ess}], there is a distinction between the operator
of the cluster infrastructure and the administrator of the cluster.
The operator privileges feature enhances the {es} security model so that some functionality
is restricted to be used by infrastructure operators and is not available to cluster administrators,

> even if they log in as a highly privileged user (such as `superuser`).

Reviewer: Since `superuser` isn't a "user", maybe we want a slightly different phrasing
```suggestion
even if they log in as a highly privileged user (such as the `elastic` user, or another user with the `superuser` role).
```

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="enterprise"]
[[operator-privileges]]
== Operator privileges

include::operator-privileges-designed-for-note.asciidoc[]

> With a typical {es} deployment, people who administer the cluster also operate
> the cluster at the infrastructure level. User authorization based on
> <<authorization,role-based access control (RBAC)>> is effective and reliable for
> this environment. However, in more managed environments, such as
> {ess-trial}[{ess}], there is a distinction between the operator of the cluster
> infrastructure and the administrator of the cluster. The operator privileges
> feature enhances the {es} security model so that some functionality is
> restricted to infrastructure operators only. This functionality is not available
> to cluster administrators--even if they log in as a highly privileged user such
> as the `elastic` user or another user with the `superuser` role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With a typical {es} deployment, people who administer the cluster also operate
the cluster at the infrastructure level. User authorization based on
<<authorization,role-based access control (RBAC)>> is effective and reliable for
this environment. However, in more managed environments, such as
{ess-trial}[{ess}], there is a distinction between the operator of the cluster
infrastructure and the administrator of the cluster. 

Operator privileges limit some functionality to operator users only. Operator
users are just regular Elasticsearch users with access to specific
<<operator-only-functionality,operator-only functionality>>. These
privileges are not available to cluster administrators, even if they log in as
a highly privileged user such as the `elastic` user or another user with the
superuser role. By limiting system access, operator privileges enhance the
Elasticsearch security model while safeguarding user capabilities.
```

Reviewer 2: Here's a suggestion that expands on why operator privileges are important, and what their intended purpose is. I'm happy to help iterate on this text if you think the explanation is helpful.

Author: Thanks Adam.
